Tuxtla, dad.
cue-2
Ñippi.
cue-3
Pachuca and Hidalgo, from the Huasteca and
Hidalguense.
cue-4
Hell yeah!
cue-5
Drinking pulque, my own.
cue-6
Just this, because there's no more,
otherwise, otherwise
cue-7
[laughs] we'd have another.
cue-8
I went, I deserted, because I don't like,
cue-9
I don't like
cue-10
killing another bastard. I will never accept it.
cue-11
They will never-- I don't have to accept
cue-12
taking the life of a human being.
cue-13
I am class of 1979. You know?
cue-14
And I didn't accept many
cue-15
things because not-- Ideology,
cue-16
whatever you want. I respect the guy
cue-17
for who he is,
cue-18
for what he achieved.
cue-19
But in the Acteal massacre,
cue-20
I know he fulfilled his duty,
cue-21
because all of us,
cue-22
because they all dictate to us there.
cue-23
I didn't want to jump out of a Hercules,
cue-24
as he said.
cue-25
Hercules, Arava, the Koski, C-130.
cue-26
To kill people. I didn't enlist
cue-27
for that. That's why I deserted,
cue-28
because I know my conscience will never be at peace.
cue-29
You know? I respect him for who he is, for
what he's going to do.
cue-30
And look, I acknowledge it like this, I acknowledge it like this.
cue-31
I was discharged with a dishonorable
cue-32
discharge, I don't care.
cue-33
Class of '79.
cue-34
Here I go on the plane, look, so that--
cue-35
Wait, wait.
cue-36
All of us who entered and graduated were few. There are already
cue-37
only a few photos that, that I have left.
cue-38
No, this...
cue-39
I only live on memories now. Seniority.
cue-40
You live on memories?
cue-41
136 seniority and my wings.
cue-42
Well, I even have them tattooed,
cue-43
right? But actually,
cue-44
actually, these are the ones you graduate with,
cue-45
with five jumps.
cue-46
Ohhh.
cue-47
And when you do thirty jumps, they give you a
cue-48
star.
cue-49
Uh-huh.
cue-50
And when you do more than a hundred
jumps, a star and a laurel.
cue-51
Do you have any of those decorations?
cue-52
No. I didn't reach thirty jumps.
cue-53
I was short.
cue-54
They are many, right? I imagine.
cue-55
Yes,
cue-56
yes, they are many.
cue-57
And each jump, you're forging them. I mean,
cue-58
you must have very good fitness and know
how to dominate your parachute, know how to execute your
cue-59
fall. Five points of contact. That is,
tip (toes), calves, buttocks and
cue-60
back.
cue-61
Five points of contact.
cue-62
Yes, for the mission.
cue-63
And to drink pulque, how many points of
contact do you need to complete that
cue-64
mission?
cue-65
To be here already having breakfast.
cue-66
Yes, in the morning, I ate my chilaquiles
cue-67
which cost me
cue-68
forty pesos, very tasty, by the way,
cue-69
here on the Boulevard,
cue-70
and I said: "Well, I'm going to pair it with a little beer,"
cue-71
I had one,
cue-72
a beer.
cue-73
But I pour myself a glass and I am
cue-74
doing chores, you know what I mean?
cue-75
I mean, in movement. Right now, one said, I'll
cue-76
relax for a while. And this,
cue-77
it's just the time for the fashion show
cue-78
.
cue-79
In 1993, I enlisted on October 1,
1993. Ninety-
cue-80
three, ninety-four, ninety-five,
ninety-six, and in ninety-seven. I
cue-81
failed universal history.
cue-82
I couldn't
cue-83
handle the subject. There, you only have
cue-84
eight, barely passing, nine, regular, and ten,
excellent, honor roll. I got, I think,
cue-85
six point five, I didn't even reach seven.
cue-86
I got, I think, six point five, I didn't even reach seven.
cue-87
They sent me back to the Air Force
command and my general told me: "You were
cue-88
already a cadet, you were going to be a mechanic,
a mechanic, damn it. Now are you going to
cue-89
return as an enlisted soldier again?
Do you want your papers or are you going to
cue-90
bust your ass?" "No, just give me my papers."
cue-91
He gave me my papers, here you go.
cue-92
Get the hell out of here.
cue-93
I cried like you wouldn't believe, I went
to the ranch,
cue-94
to the Cerro del Chilelete. At that time,
my dad had a cabin on the avenue. And
cue-95
I went to lock myself up there, I went on a strike of,
cue-96
I went on a hunger strike.
cue-97
I didn't want to know anything because I felt
like a total badass
cue-98
and suddenly they,
cue-99
they kick me in the butt. Well, they didn't,
but rather
cue-100
I didn't take advantage of the studies.
cue-101
And yes, my uncle found me because they were
looking for me: "Hey, Omar is missing, he's
cue-102
missing, we already went there and...
cue-103
He's missing, my boy, haven't you seen him?"
Well, he really liked it here.
cue-104
"I heard noises in the cabin, he must
be in the cabin." "And yes, they go to
cue-105
the cabin and they find me. And they
start motivating me, right?" My uncle Ángel,
cue-106
the wrestler, my uncle, the
cue-107
driver.
cue-108
"Ah, well, if the president didn't have to
be in the Armed Forces and he is
cue-109
president." They motivated me. Ah, what can
I say? Well, let's go, then. Let's go for
cue-110
barbecue.
cue-111
They took me, they took me to
cue-112
eat, my dad brought me back here, to
Mexico. And I take it and I say to my
cue-113
mom: "Mom, tomorrow I'm going to the United
States."
cue-114
"Oh, son.
cue-115
Your son again." Well, I'm done...
"Yes, son," she said.
cue-116
"Well, go on then, have a safe trip."
As if he were going to... Right? As if
cue-117
he were going to Tlalnepantla. "Oh, son,
you don't know what you're saying." Oh, mother.
cue-118
Well, Mexican Army,
cue-119
I go to say goodbye to my, to my
comrades and the next day, early, at
cue-120
seven in the morning, with two changes of
clothes, one on and two to, spares.
cue-121
Hitchhiking, hitchhiking, hitchhiking, hitchhiking.
cue-124
And I worked, I helped the people who
cue-125
gave me a ride. They gave me my change.
cue-126
Ah, if I liked a state, I bought a bag
cue-127
of candies and sold the candies on the
buses. Until I reached Ciudad
cue-128
Juárez. Ah, a huge adventure
cue-129
that I cross the Rio Grande
cue-130
and I arrive in Texas. A huge adventure.
I call them. I'm in Texas. You damn "compadre,"
cue-131
you damn "compadre," no way, you're a
badass, you didn't even pay a coyote. I didn't pay
cue-132
anything, I crossed it all by myself.
cue-133
And I worked there for two months in a hotel.
I couldn't go out because there were no permits.
cue-134
I mean, since I was an immigrant, I was
under the radar, without papers. They
cue-135
kept me...
cue-136
I mean,
cue-137
I maintained the hotel, mopped, swept,
the pool, whatever the... told me.
cue-138
But I couldn't go out. He would send for
my pizzas or whatever food I wanted.
cue-139
Why? So the immigration police wouldn't
catch me. And guess what? I decided
cue-140
to go to Chicago, Illinois.
cue-141
I was doing well. The hotel guy even took
me there, but he did tell me:
cue-142
"I'll just drop you off here,
cue-143
and then I'm leaving." Perfect. Well, upon
getting the ticket
cue-144
for...
cue-145
The ticket for Chicago, Illinois, the
immigration police were there. ID, your papers,
cue-146
paper. You're going back. And they
cue-147
send me back. But they did give me back my ticket,
my five hundred dollars, they
cue-148
gave me back the plane ticket money and I
had another five hundred, I had a thousand dollars. And I
cue-149
go to Mexico, they send me back. But I arrived
in the state of Guanajuato. I remember
cue-150
I even bought a piece of land and fell
in love with a girl and oh no, no, no.
cue-151
But her boyfriend arrives from the US with
a truck and some damn huge speakers.
cue-152
Well, I feel like it. No, well my girlfriend
sends me away. No, well you can imagine that
cue-153
it turned into a mess. And well.
cue-154
The most beautiful thing that has happened to
me in life
cue-155
is jumping out of a plane, being in the
Parachute Rifle Brigade
cue-156
and having met the mother of my children.
Four children, two girls and two
cue-157
boys. I am currently a grandfather. She just
turned about three, three years, four
cue-158
years old. Luckily, I haven't gone to
cue-159
visit her.